as possible for that layer. This will also automatically re-adjust the position of the layer to account for the space that was removed. We strongly recommend you make use of this functionality, especially on high-resolution wallpapers (4K UHD and larger), this can significantly reduce the VRAM usage:

 By default, Wallpaper Engine also adds a padding to each cropped image layer. This is to account for image effects that go beyond the object itself. The padding also uses a bit of VRAM, so if you know you will not use any effects that go beyond the initial size of the layer, you can also set it to 0 (or if you need more padding, increase it as needed).
 # Optimize Texture Format
 Graphics cards do not support rendering of common image formats like JPEG and PNG, so Wallpaper Engine has to convert them into a compatible format first. In video memory these images are decompressed which means they require significantly more memory than the original file size.
 By default, when importing a new image into an existing wallpaper, Wallpaper Engine will suggest to use no compression ( "RGBA8888" ). However, different compression methods called DXT5 ( "Good Performance" ) and DXT1 ( "High Performance" ) can be displayed by graphics cards and will occupy only a quarter of memory compared to an uncompressed image.
 The first background image is always imported without compression to provide the highest quality and simplify the process, but you can always re-import it later and then choose a different compression if you like.
 TIP
 No one likes low-quality wallpapers but the compressions in Wallpaper Engine are hardly noticeable for many use-cases. We suggest you simply give the compression methods a try - it's not as bad as it sounds and especially on more complex wallpapers, it can significantly boost the performance!

 You can choose the compression method when importing a new image:

 # Optimizing an Existing Layer
 If you want to apply DXT5 compression to an existing layer, you can do so easily. Select your layer and scroll down to the Advanced Texture Settings button on the right-hand side. Click on the button, then next to the Albedo texture, click on the cogwheel icon and select Texture Properties . Now look for the Format option and change it to DXT5 . Accordingly, you should see a reduction in the Video memory statistic above. See a video of this process here:

 Your browser does not support the video tag.
 # Further Optimize DXT5 and DXT1 Textures
 Compressed DXT5 and DXT1 textures need to have a resolution of a power of two (1, 2, 4, 8, 16, 32, 64, 128, 256, 512, 1024, 2048, 4096, 8192 etc.) to be displayed by your computer. Wallpaper Engine will quietly take care of this in the background and add invisible pixels to fill in the missing pixels. However, the amount of memory required increases (though it will always be better than using an uncompressed image).
 In the following example a normal 1920 x 1080 image was imported as DXT5. It has to be padded to a resolution of 2048 x 2048, because that's the next power of two for 1920 and 1080. As you can see, there are a ton of black pixels in the example, half of the memory used is practically wasted.

 You should consider reducing the height of the image to 1024, then Wallpaper Engine can create a 2048 x 1024 texture instead, that's only half the memory that was needed before.
 Of course this means that your actual image has a smaller resolution as well, so you need to decide if and how this trade-off works for you. You can scale the layer in Wallpaper Engine to correct for this reduction in size by 1.055 (which is 1080 / 1024):

 TIP
 If you optimized the background image like this, check your project resolution in the editor by clicking on Edit in the menu bar at the top and then Project Settings . You can verify and change project resolution there, if it is misconfigured, your image might be cut off unintentionally.

 ←

 Project Resolution

 SceneScript Introduction

 →

 Imprint