 

 Steam - Downloads / Uploads 
 Steam Wallpaper Download Issues 
 Steamworks is unavailable 
 Steam redownloading wallpapers 
 "Content file locked" / Disk Write Error 
 Backup Steam Workshop 
 Uploads get stuck at 45% 
 Steam always shows "in-game" 
 Wallpaper Engine missing in Steam Library 

 Android 
 Android - Frequent Questions and Problems 
 Pairing Mobile Device with Windows 
 Mobile Pairing Problem Solving 

 Wallpapers not showing 
 Wallpapers not visible 
 Videos Black / Not Playing Properly Clean graphics card driver re-installation 
 Codec Tweak Tool 
 Additional video codecs 

 Crashes 
 Wallpaper Engine crashing 
 System crash / System Freeze 
 "DirectX 10 not supported" crash 
 BattlEye anti-cheat terminating Wallpaper Engine 

 Wallpaper Browser 
 Wallpaper Engine window not displayed correctly 
 Preview images / search results not showing 
 Exclude certain wallpapers from the search 

 Video Wallpapers 
 Using LAV and DirectShow 
 Videos Black / Not Playing Properly Clean graphics card driver re-installation 
 Codec Tweak Tool 
 Additional video codecs 

 Video freezes / stuttering / bad performance 
 Video wallpapers look wrong 
 Red Line on screen 
 Windows N: mfplat.dll missing 

 Audio 
 Album Cover & Media Data Feature 
 Audio visualizers do not work / no sound detected 
 No Sound Playing / Audio Output Problems 
 Sound / audio turns on and off intermittently 
 Limiting audio visualizers to music players 

 Performance 
 High GPU usage misconception 
 Performance issues / low FPS with certain games or applications 
 Wrong Refresh Rates of Monitors 
 Desktops with Integrated and Dedicated GPU Perform Poorly (dwm.exe) 

 Error Analysis & Contact 
 Use the Wallpaper Engine analysis tool to create a debug log 
 Fully Resetting Wallpaper Engine 
 Contact 

 # Videos Black / Not Playing Properly
 Black screens and other issues with wallpapers of the type Video are always caused by either faulty graphics card drivers or faulty video codecs. Try the following steps in the exact order. If you follow this guide from top to bottom, the problem will be solved:
 Please note
 This topic is about the Wallpaper Engine wallpapers being black or not playing properly. If your Wallpaper Engine interface is black you need to go here: Wallpaper Engine User Interface is Black .

 # Clean graphics card driver re-installation
 For the majority of users, a clean re-installation of the graphics card drivers will fix most type of issues related to video wallpapers. This includes black screens and users whose wallpapers are shown in a separate window (titled "ActiveMovie Window" ).
 Download the latest graphics card drivers for your graphics card (or all of them if you have two, for example Nvidia and Intel):
 Nvidia GeForce 

 AMD Radeon 

 Intel Graphics 

 Uninstall your current graphics card drivers completely and delete all existing settings if asked. Nvidia drivers have a checkbox which says "Perform clean re-installation" which also works.
 You can also use Display Driver Uninstaller ("DDU") 

 if you are unsure on how to do that.
 Install the drivers you have just downloaded in step 1.
 Restart your PC again, see if it works now.
 TIP
 It's very important that you do a clean re-installation - this means your current graphics card drivers and driver settings have to be completely deleted before you install the new drivers, otherwise it will not work.

 # Codec Tweak Tool
 If it does not work after doing a clean re-installation of your graphics card drivers, try resetting your video codecs:
 Download the Codec Tweak Tool: Click here 

 Make sure that all checkboxes in the "Media Foundation" menu are not checked, then apply the settings:

 Restart the PC and try the affected wallpapers again.
 # Additional video codecs
 If affected video wallpapers still do not work after the previous steps, download LAV and use DirectShow as described in this guide:
 Using LAV and DirectShow .

 Cannot fix your problem? Contact us!

 Imprint