Wallpaper Engine - Troubleshooting & FAQ 

 General 
 Screensavers with Wallpaper Engine 
 Automatic start-up at boot 
 RGB hardware support (iCUE & Chroma) 
 Restoring deleted default wallpapers 
 Exporting wallpapers as GIF / video 
 Hiding the Wallpaper Engine tray icon 
 Editing Downloaded Wallpapers 
 Wallpaper Engine on Linux or Mac OS 
 Fix issues with specific apps or games 
 Select wallpapers per application 
 Command Line Controls 

 Windows 
 32-Bit & 64-Bit Version 
 Hibernation / Screensavers do not work 
 Playlist Causes focus loss / minimizes games 
 Centering wallpaper with monitors of different resolutions 
 Windows 7: Aero cannot be enabled 
 Wallpaper Engine on the Windows lock screen 
 Windows N: mfplat.dll missing 
 Reverting to an older version of Wallpaper Engine 

 Steam - Downloads / Uploads 
 Steam Wallpaper Download Issues 
 Steamworks is unavailable 
 Steam redownloading wallpapers 
 "Content file locked" / Disk Write Error 
 Backup Steam Workshop 
 Uploads get stuck at 45% 
 Steam always shows "in-game" 
 Wallpaper Engine missing in Steam Library 

 Android 
 Android - Frequent Questions and Problems 
 Pairing Mobile Device with Windows 
 Mobile Pairing Problem Solving 

 Wallpapers not showing 
 Wallpapers not visible 
 Videos Black / Not Playing Properly 

 Crashes 
 Wallpaper Engine crashing 
 System crash / System Freeze 
 "DirectX 10 not supported" crash 
 BattlEye anti-cheat terminating Wallpaper Engine 

 Wallpaper Browser 
 Wallpaper Engine window not displayed correctly 
 Preview images / search results not showing 
 Exclude certain wallpapers from the search 

 Video Wallpapers 
 Using LAV and DirectShow 
 Videos Black / Not Playing Properly 
 Video freezes / stuttering / bad performance Background recording hooks 
 Dynamic Super Resolution (DSR) / GPU Scaling 
 Bad performance in dwm.exe in systems with multiple GPUs / multiple screens 

 Video wallpapers look wrong 
 Red Line on screen 
 Windows N: mfplat.dll missing 

 Audio 
 Album Cover & Media Data Feature 
 Audio visualizers do not work / no sound detected 
 No Sound Playing / Audio Output Problems 
 Sound / audio turns on and off intermittently 
 Limiting audio visualizers to music players 

 Performance 
 High GPU usage misconception 
 Performance issues / low FPS with certain games or applications 
 Wrong Refresh Rates of Monitors 
 Desktops with Integrated and Dedicated GPU Perform Poorly (dwm.exe) 

 Error Analysis & Contact 
 Use the Wallpaper Engine analysis tool to create a debug log 
 Fully Resetting Wallpaper Engine 
 Contact 

 # Video freezes / stuttering / bad performance
 This could come from your hardware not being powerful enough to display the specific video properly. A video wallpaper isn't comparable to standard video players, it must be composed with the icons as well and potentially stretches over multiple screens. It is also using the video decoder of your GPU by default to reduce CPU usage to a minimum.
 # Background recording hooks
 It could also come from any kind of driver features to record applications like ReLive, Shadow Play/Nvidia Share or Windows GameDVR. Try disabling them and see if it makes a difference, then exclude Wallpaper Engine from them. Also make sure no other recording/overlay programs load themselves into Wallpaper Engine and slow down rendering.
 You can try to use our scan tool to determine if any programs are installed that are known to cause these types of issues. Keep in mind that our scan tool is not able to reliably detect the root cause of this problem - it may fail to detect any problem or it may report an application even though it is unrelated to your issues:
 Wallpaper Engine Scan Tool 
 # Dynamic Super Resolution (DSR) / GPU Scaling
 Driver level hacks like GPU Scaling/DSR could cause issues as well, try disabling them and if that helps, disable them for Wallpaper Engine specifically.
 # Bad performance in dwm.exe in systems with multiple GPUs / multiple screens
 If you have enabled the integrated GPU on your desktop PC in the BIOS although a dedicated graphics card is installed, you can experience bad performance and high CPU usage of DWM.exe. If possible, do not enable your integrated GPU. It's very important to plug all your monitors into your dedicated graphics card. Using both GPUs at the same time will break hardware acceleration of the desktop window manager. Without Nvidia Optimus technology or similar, Windows will be forced to copy the wallpaper image from one GPU to the other - a slow operation. In fact any shared action between your GPUs will suffer from this, it is the same as moving a game window right between both monitors.
 This specific issue does not affect hardware built for multi-GPU setups like laptops with Nvidia Optimus or proper Nvidia SLI / AMD Crossfire setups with a hardware bridge.

 Cannot fix your problem? Contact us!

 Imprint