ws 
 32-Bit & 64-Bit Version 
 Hibernation / Screensavers do not work 
 Playlist Causes focus loss / minimizes games 
 Centering wallpaper with monitors of different resolutions 
 Windows 7: Aero cannot be enabled 
 Wallpaper Engine on the Windows lock screen 
 Windows N: mfplat.dll missing 
 Reverting to an older version of Wallpaper Engine 

 Steam - Downloads / Uploads 
 Steam Wallpaper Download Issues 
 Steamworks is unavailable 
 Steam redownloading wallpapers 
 "Content file locked" / Disk Write Error 
 Backup Steam Workshop 
 Uploads get stuck at 45% 
 Steam always shows "in-game" 
 Wallpaper Engine missing in Steam Library 

 Android 
 Android - Frequent Questions and Problems 
 Pairing Mobile Device with Windows 
 Mobile Pairing Problem Solving 

 Wallpapers not showing 
 Wallpapers not visible 
 Videos Black / Not Playing Properly 

 Crashes 
 Wallpaper Engine crashing 
 System crash / System Freeze 
 "DirectX 10 not supported" crash 
 BattlEye anti-cheat terminating Wallpaper Engine 

 Wallpaper Browser 
 Wallpaper Engine window not displayed correctly 
 Preview images / search results not showing 
 Exclude certain wallpapers from the search 

 Video Wallpapers 
 Using LAV and DirectShow 1. Install LAV 
 2. Enable DirectShow 
 Enabling WebM Hardware Acceleration 

 Videos Black / Not Playing Properly 
 Video freezes / stuttering / bad performance 
 Video wallpapers look wrong 
 Red Line on screen 
 Windows N: mfplat.dll missing 

 Audio 
 Album Cover & Media Data Feature 
 Audio visualizers do not work / no sound detected 
 No Sound Playing / Audio Output Problems 
 Sound / audio turns on and off intermittently 
 Limiting audio visualizers to music players 

 Performance 
 High GPU usage misconception 
 Performance issues / low FPS with certain games or applications 
 Wrong Refresh Rates of Monitors 
 Desktops with Integrated and Dedicated GPU Perform Poorly (dwm.exe) 

 Error Analysis & Contact 
 Use the Wallpaper Engine analysis tool to create a debug log 
 Fully Resetting Wallpaper Engine 
 Contact 

 # Using LAV and DirectShow
 If you have issues related to broken video codecs or want to use additional video formats on your system, you can try to install LAV and enable DirectShow in the Wallpaper Engine settings. This should enable better support for 4K and HEVC videos on Windows 7 and allow opening of .mkv files.
 For legal reasons, we cannot bundle LAV with Wallpaper Engine which means you need to download and install it yourself. After you have installed LAV, you also need to configure Wallpaper Engine to use DirectShow:
 # 1. Install LAV
 Download the x86 AND x64 versions of LAV Filters:
 Mirror #1: Github 

 Mirror #2: Fosshub 

 Install LAV, make sure your Windows user has admin rights
 Restart Wallpaper Engine.
 # 2. Enable DirectShow
 Open the Wallpaper Engine settings and navigate to the "General" tab
 Change the Video framework option to Prefer DirectShow 
 Restart the application and try using your video wallpaper again
 # Enabling WebM Hardware Acceleration
 If you are experiencing stutters at the end of your video wallpapers, you can use .webm files which do not suffer from the same issue. It's best if you also enable hardware acceleration for .webm videos which will reduce the CPU usage for them significantly and still allows video wallpapers to loop without a notable cut after the last frame. This is a continuation of the steps above, make sure you have installed LAV and enabled DirectShow as instructed in the previous section.
 Open the Wallpaper Engine settings and navigate to the "General" tab
 Change the WebM framework option to Prefer Native 
 Restart the application and try using your video wallpaper again
 Check if the LAV system tray icon shows up and if the CPU usage is nearly zero, then your .webm content is now hardware accelerated. If it does not seem to work, make sure all options are configured correctly and LAV is correctly installed.

 Cannot fix your problem? Contact us!

 Imprint