Wallpaper Engine - Troubleshooting & FAQ 

 General 
 Screensavers with Wallpaper Engine 
 Automatic start-up at boot 
 RGB hardware support (iCUE & Chroma) 
 Restoring deleted default wallpapers 
 Exporting wallpapers as GIF / video 
 Hiding the Wallpaper Engine tray icon 
 Editing Downloaded Wallpapers 
 Wallpaper Engine on Linux or Mac OS 
 Fix issues with specific apps or games 
 Select wallpapers per application 
 Command Line Controls 

 Windows 
 32-Bit & 64-Bit Version 
 Hibernation / Screensavers do not work 
 Playlist Causes focus loss / minimizes games 
 Centering wallpaper with monitors of different resolutions 
 Windows 7: Aero cannot be enabled 
 Wallpaper Engine on the Windows lock screen 
 Windows N: mfplat.dll missing 
 Reverting to an older version of Wallpaper Engine 

 Steam - Downloads / Uploads 
 Steam Wallpaper Download Issues 
 Steamworks is unavailable 
 Steam redownloading wallpapers 
 "Content file locked" / Disk Write Error 
 Backup Steam Workshop 
 Uploads get stuck at 45% 
 Steam always shows "in-game" 
 Wallpaper Engine missing in Steam Library 

 Android 
 Android - Frequent Questions and Problems 
 Pairing Mobile Device with Windows 
 Mobile Pairing Problem Solving 

 Wallpapers not showing 
 Wallpapers not visible 
 Videos Black / Not Playing Properly 

 Crashes 
 Wallpaper Engine crashing 
 System crash / System Freeze 
 "DirectX 10 not supported" crash 
 BattlEye anti-cheat terminating Wallpaper Engine 

 Wallpaper Browser 
 Wallpaper Engine window not displayed correctly 
 Preview images / search results not showing 
 Exclude certain wallpapers from the search 

 Video Wallpapers 
 Using LAV and DirectShow 
 Videos Black / Not Playing Properly 
 Video freezes / stuttering / bad performance 
 Video wallpapers look wrong 
 Red Line on screen 
 Windows N: mfplat.dll missing 

 Audio 
 Album Cover & Media Data Feature 
 Audio visualizers do not work / no sound detected 
 No Sound Playing / Audio Output Problems 
 Sound / audio turns on and off intermittently 
 Limiting audio visualizers to music players 

 Performance 
 High GPU usage misconception 
 Performance issues / low FPS with certain games or applications 
 Wrong Refresh Rates of Monitors 
 Desktops with Integrated and Dedicated GPU Perform Poorly (dwm.exe) Poor Performance using Secondary GPU on Desktop without Nvidia SLI / Nvidia Optimus / AMD CrossFire 

 Error Analysis & Contact 
 Use the Wallpaper Engine analysis tool to create a debug log 
 Fully Resetting Wallpaper Engine 
 Contact 

 # Desktops with Integrated and Dedicated GPU Perform Poorly (dwm.exe)
 If you enabled the integrated GPU on your desktop PC in the BIOS although a dedicated GPU is installed, you may experience bad performance and high CPU usage of dwm.exe . If possible, do not enable your integrated GPU and plug your monitors into your dedicated GPU. Using both independent graphics solutions at the same time will break hardware acceleration of the desktop window manager, it's important that all monitors are plugged into your main graphics card. This is not a bug or issue in Wallpaper Engine, it is problem that affects all mulit-monitor software with hardware setups where not all monitors are plugged into the main graphics card.
 Without Nvidia Optimus technology or similar, Windows will be forced to copy the wallpaper image from one GPU to the other - a very slow operation. In fact any shared action between your GPUs will suffer from this, it is the same as moving a game window right between both monitors.
 This is unrelated to hardware built for multi-GPU setups like Nvidia Optimus laptops or SLI/Crossfire. They have a physical solution to make this work correctly.
 # Poor Performance using Secondary GPU on Desktop without Nvidia SLI / Nvidia Optimus / AMD CrossFire
 Many users assume that switching Wallpaper Engine to a secondary GPU will increase the overall system performance. However, this is merely a common misconception and the overall system performance will actually degrade.
 Wallpaper Engine creates wallpapers which are part of the desktop which means they are part of the Windows Explorer process. Therefore, Wallpaper Engine must use the same GPU as Windows Explorer. If this is not the case, then Windows has to force both GPUs to cooperate in order to render an image for your monitors. This has to be done by the processor which ultimately means the overall computer performance degrades significantly and often takes much more performance than the wallpapers themselves. Some proper multi-GPU technologies (Nvidia SLI, Nvidia Optimus, AMD CrossFire) solve this problem on a hardware-level but this is not applicable in cases where you use an Nvidia GPU and an Intel on-board graphics card, for example.
 You can still change the GPU of your choice in your graphics card drivers or in your overall system settings, however we strongly advise against doing this as the outcome is not an increase in system performance.

 Cannot fix your problem? Contact us!

 Imprint