Wallpaper Engine - Troubleshooting & FAQ 

 General 
 Screensavers with Wallpaper Engine 
 Automatic start-up at boot 
 RGB hardware support (iCUE & Chroma) 
 Restoring deleted default wallpapers 
 Exporting wallpapers as GIF / video 
 Hiding the Wallpaper Engine tray icon 
 Editing Downloaded Wallpapers 
 Wallpaper Engine on Linux or Mac OS 
 Fix issues with specific apps or games Setting up an application rule 

 Select wallpapers per application 
 Command Line Controls 

 Windows 
 32-Bit & 64-Bit Version 
 Hibernation / Screensavers do not work 
 Playlist Causes focus loss / minimizes games 
 Centering wallpaper with monitors of different resolutions 
 Windows 7: Aero cannot be enabled 
 Wallpaper Engine on the Windows lock screen 
 Windows N: mfplat.dll missing 
 Reverting to an older version of Wallpaper Engine 

 Steam - Downloads / Uploads 
 Steam Wallpaper Download Issues 
 Steamworks is unavailable 
 Steam redownloading wallpapers 
 "Content file locked" / Disk Write Error 
 Backup Steam Workshop 
 Uploads get stuck at 45% 
 Steam always shows "in-game" 
 Wallpaper Engine missing in Steam Library 

 Android 
 Android - Frequent Questions and Problems 
 Pairing Mobile Device with Windows 
 Mobile Pairing Problem Solving 

 Wallpapers not showing 
 Wallpapers not visible 
 Videos Black / Not Playing Properly 

 Crashes 
 Wallpaper Engine crashing 
 System crash / System Freeze 
 "DirectX 10 not supported" crash 
 BattlEye anti-cheat terminating Wallpaper Engine 

 Wallpaper Browser 
 Wallpaper Engine window not displayed correctly 
 Preview images / search results not showing 
 Exclude certain wallpapers from the search 

 Video Wallpapers 
 Using LAV and DirectShow 
 Videos Black / Not Playing Properly 
 Video freezes / stuttering / bad performance 
 Video wallpapers look wrong 
 Red Line on screen 
 Windows N: mfplat.dll missing 

 Audio 
 Album Cover & Media Data Feature 
 Audio visualizers do not work / no sound detected 
 No Sound Playing / Audio Output Problems 
 Sound / audio turns on and off intermittently 
 Limiting audio visualizers to music players 

 Performance 
 High GPU usage misconception 
 Performance issues / low FPS with certain games or applications 
 Wrong Refresh Rates of Monitors 
 Desktops with Integrated and Dedicated GPU Perform Poorly (dwm.exe) 

 Error Analysis & Contact 
 Use the Wallpaper Engine analysis tool to create a debug log 
 Fully Resetting Wallpaper Engine 
 Contact 

 # Fix issues with specific apps or games
 If you are experiencing problems with specific applications or games you can configure Wallpaper Engine to behave a certain way when it detects that the app you are having problems with is launched or playing audio, for example.
 # Setting up an application rule
 In the Performance tab of the Wallpaper Engine settings, clicking on the Edit button next to the Application Rules label will bring up the overview of all custom rules you have set up. By clicking on Create new rule you can set up a special behavior of Wallpaper Engine for a specific application.

 You will be presented with a list of all running .exe files on your system. Either select an .exe from the list or type in the exact name of the .exe you are having problems with. You can configure the condition and the behavior with the two other options. See below for more infos and concrete examples.
 TIP
 Wallpaper Engine only cares about the exact .exe name, the location does not matter so you can just type any .exe into the Application name field. Just make sure the .exe name matches exactly, including uppercase and lowercase letters.

 # Fixing performance problems with apps or games
 Select the .exe of the program you want to have a special rule for from the list or type it into the Application name field. Afterwards, set Condition to Is running and Wallpaper playback to Stop (free memory) . This means Wallpaper Engine will completely remove all wallpapers from memory when the application or game is launched, which means any compatibility issues will be resolved.
 # Fixing intermittent sound with background recording tools
 Select the .exe of the program you want to have a special rule for from the list or type it into the Application name field. Afterwards, set Condition to Is playing audio and Wallpaper playback to Keep running . This means Wallpaper Engine will not mute itself when the application in question is playing or recording audio. Windows does not differentiate between playing or recording audio, this is why Wallpaper Engine will constantly mute and unmute itself if you are recording it. Many game streaming applications can do this by accident and without your knowledge.
 # Other behavior
 Check out all possible conditions and wallpaper playback options for more types of application rules. You can also configure Wallpaper Engine to mute or pause when you launch a certain application.
 TIP
 You can also change these settings for all applications in the Performance tab of the Wallpaper Engine settings. If you are having performance issues in multiple games, for example, it may make sense to just change the Other application fullscreen option to Stop (free memory) so that Wallpaper Engine will turn itself off when you launch any game or fullscreen application.

 Cannot fix your problem? Contact us!

 Imprint