Wallpaper Engine - Troubleshooting & FAQ 

 General 
 Screensavers with Wallpaper Engine 
 Automatic start-up at boot 
 RGB hardware support (iCUE & Chroma) 
 Restoring deleted default wallpapers 
 Exporting wallpapers as GIF / video 
 Hiding the Wallpaper Engine tray icon 
 Editing Downloaded Wallpapers 
 Wallpaper Engine on Linux or Mac OS 
 Fix issues with specific apps or games 
 Select wallpapers per application 
 Command Line Controls 

 Windows 
 32-Bit & 64-Bit Version 
 Hibernation / Screensavers do not work 
 Playlist Causes focus loss / minimizes games 
 Centering wallpaper with monitors of different resolutions 
 Windows 7: Aero cannot be enabled 
 Wallpaper Engine on the Windows lock screen 
 Windows N: mfplat.dll missing 
 Reverting to an older version of Wallpaper Engine 

 Steam - Downloads / Uploads 
 Steam Wallpaper Download Issues 
 Steamworks is unavailable 
 Steam redownloading wallpapers 
 "Content file locked" / Disk Write Error 
 Backup Steam Workshop 
 Uploads get stuck at 45% 
 Steam always shows "in-game" 
 Wallpaper Engine missing in Steam Library 

 Android 
 Android - Frequent Questions and Problems 
 Pairing Mobile Device with Windows 
 Mobile Pairing Problem Solving 

 Wallpapers not showing 
 Wallpapers not visible 
 Videos Black / Not Playing Properly 

 Crashes 
 Wallpaper Engine crashing 
 System crash / System Freeze 
 "DirectX 10 not supported" crash 
 BattlEye anti-cheat terminating Wallpaper Engine 

 Wallpaper Browser 
 Wallpaper Engine window not displayed correctly 
 Preview images / search results not showing 
 Exclude certain wallpapers from the search 

 Video Wallpapers 
 Using LAV and DirectShow 
 Videos Black / Not Playing Properly 
 Video freezes / stuttering / bad performance 
 Video wallpapers look wrong 
 Red Line on screen 
 Windows N: mfplat.dll missing 

 Audio 
 Album Cover & Media Data Feature 
 Audio visualizers do not work / no sound detected 
 No Sound Playing / Audio Output Problems 
 Sound / audio turns on and off intermittently 
 Limiting audio visualizers to music players 

 Performance 
 High GPU usage misconception Finding out your actual GPU load 

 Performance issues / low FPS with certain games or applications 
 Wrong Refresh Rates of Monitors 
 Desktops with Integrated and Dedicated GPU Perform Poorly (dwm.exe) 

 Error Analysis & Contact 
 Use the Wallpaper Engine analysis tool to create a debug log 
 Fully Resetting Wallpaper Engine 
 Contact 

 # High GPU usage misconception
 The Windows Task Manager does not show the real GPU usage in most cases which is the cause for a lot of confusion. The GPU usage ignores the power state and clock rate of the graphics card which makes it extremely inaccurate and usually shows a much higher GPU usage. To see the real GPU, usage, use a tool like GPU-Z:
 Download GPU-Z 

 # Finding out your actual GPU load
 Once you have installed GPU-Z, check out the "Sensors" tab to see the GPU clock rate and the GPU Load:

 Notice GPU load in the screenshot is at 24%. However, at the top you can see that the graphics card is in its low power state at 202.5 MHz. This is the best case scenario, although the 'usage' is displayed as 24%. The actual usage based on the max clockrate of 1823mhz is only 2.6% (24% * 202.5 MHz / 1823 MHz) .
 A card could have clock rates between 100 Mhz and 2000 Mhz for example. If the task manager shows 50% then it makes a big difference whether it is 50% of 100 MHz or 50% of 2000 MHz .
 TIP
 To summarize: It's important to keep the GPU clock rate in mind when looking at the GPU load. 50% of 100 MHz is better than 5% of 2000 MHz.

 If you want to improve GPU performance:
 Disable or delete overlay and recording tools, including Geforce Experience.
 Lower the frame rate setting and disable MSAA (it does not affect the quality 2D scene wallpapers).
 This won't influence the performance of videos, they have fixed frame rates and quality.
 The resolution and frame rate of the video wallpapers will control these, use videos with lower FPS to reduce GPU load

 Connect your monitors to the same GPU or Windows will perform poorly while trying to merge them.

 Cannot fix your problem? Contact us!

 Imprint